# Lab Journal: Kaan Yalcin:

Date 24/03/25
  Raspberry pi was set up. Started to look at how the camera functioned and which packages were needed.


Date 25/03/25




Date 26/03/25



Date 27/03/25
  Resit for minor in Radboud



Date 28/03/25



Date 31/03/25
  Resit for minor in Radboud

Date 1/04/25

Date 2/04/25

Date 3/04/25
  Resit for minor in Radboud

Date 4/04/25



Date 7/04/25
  Experiment 001 was started using the code 'Area_det_single'.
    This was done with ABS in Acetone and water mix.
    To get the area detection accurate, The day was spent finetuning the parameters of the canny edge code manually untill a consistent and correct area was read.
    Experiment was made to run overnight.

Date 8/04/25
  error in the code was found. Since when a new reading was started, it deleted the old measurments. Due to this the taken pictures of the ABS plastic were lost
  A mistake was also made that the petri dish was not covered. So the acetone was evapurated out during the night and and the lightpad was melted because of that. Still a small decrease in area was noted. However decrease was 
  so small that it can't be said if that is because of the acetone or just inaccuracies of the camera, since the acetone was evapurated.

  Started experiment 002:
    First experiment was to look at multiple things. Firstly see if the Region Of Interest code worked for multiple plastics and to see if it will be ran trough the whole day.
    the plastic used was PLC. It was places in 2 small petri dishes. One filled with demi water and the other filled with demi water and HCl. To look if their is a difference in dissolving between normal and acidic envoriments.
    Every 10 second the area was calculated by the code and a picture was taken.

Date 9/04/25
  Ended experiment 002:
    Area did not decerease. Decided to leave the plastic in the solution for a few more days.
  Some pictures were deleted due to space issues
  Changed the code a bit to now make a picture of the setup every 60 min. picture of the roi every 30 min and calculate the area every 10 seconds and the picture taken were now halved in resolution
  This was done so that the pictures would not fill up the memory. 

  Started exp 002-2: same as 002 with different time intervals for measurments.

Date 10/04/25
  The experiment was kept running

Date 11/04/25
  The experiment was kept running

Date 14/04/25
  The experiment was kept running due to strikes.

Date: 15/04/25
  Ended Experiment 002-2.
  Data was inconclusive. The area's did not seem to decrease to decrease
  The results were discussed with Vittorio and it was decided to change the plastic to PLA and to dissolve it in Ethyl Acetate and Ethanol. 
  For this the code was changed where there were 6 ROI in it. With the ratios being 1(100/0), 2(80/20), 3(60/40), 4(40/60), 5(20/80), 6(0/100)
  Then the plastics squares were printed out using the 3d printer with the dimentions; 20:20:1 mm
  Then the setup was finalised for the experiment to start the next day
  Checked if the area of the plastic would still be acurae if the plastic was broken in multiple pieces. The area stayed roughly the same. Except an increase of arount ~0.1-0.2 cm^2.

Date 16/04/25
  On this day the camera of the raspberry pi was broken
  It took some time to figure out what part was wrong. Eventually it was concluded that the cable that connects the camera to the pi was not functioning
  To repair this, a spare cable from my Phd was used.
  Then it seemed that there were not enough space and petri dishes for all 6 ROI to run. So it was decided to only use 5. Then the each ROI had the following ratio's of Ethyl Acetaat and Ethanol:
  1(100/0), 2(75/25), 3(50/50), 4(25/75), 5(0/100)
  Experiment 003 was started. 

Date 17\04\25
  Experiment 003 was looked at
    in the 100% Ethyl Acetaat seemed to react the most with it. A area increase was noted by the program and by eye. Also small pieces of plastic could be noticed in the solution. However during the night part of the ethyl Acetaat was evapurated out of 
    the petri dish and part of it was probably taken in by the plastic acting as a sponge. Hence, the area increase. 
    Going to lower ratio's ov the Ethyl Acetaat the reaction observed gets less. With the 100% ethanol, it seems to not have increased or decreased any noteworthy amount.
    During the night the camera seemed to have moved. Due to this quiete alot of the measurments were made invalid. However it is not known how it moved. Either someone bumped into it the following moring or the tape holding the camera in place, had 
    gotten loose and made the camera sift to the left.

  The experiment 003B was started. This is the same as 003 with 2 changes: The canny edge parameters were changed accordingly to see less noise/unwanted edges and the solvents for the plastics were refillt

    For the next experiment smaller plastic pieces would likely be better with a better fitting lid on the petri dishes. So the evapuration can be lessened and the plastic will take up less of the solvent/dissolve faster in the solvent. 

  Data analysis of exp 002 was started using python.

date 18,19,20,21\04\25
  Holidays
Date 22\04\25
  Experiment 003 was ended
    Points of interest
      -The 100% ethyl acetate has shown changes in area and the 100% alcohol hasn't
      -The lowever percentages of ethyl acetate have less area changes
      -Some of the plastic pieces have seemed to move place, thus the area detection has stopped working
      -The plastic while dissolving, seems to dissolve first at his thickness and only then on his sides. So it get less thick in the middle, making the sides fold in and making it seem as the area is smaller than in acuallity on the camera
      -Due to camera distortion effect, the plastic pieces in the middle seem to be smaller than the plastic pieces in the middle.

  Needed Improvements:
      -Getting rid of the distortian effect using opencv camera calibration: Code Change --> Multiple_Area_improved
      -Making the ROI circular and the same size as the petri dishes as to fix the problem of the plastic squares moving out of the ROI area --> Multiple_Area_improved
      -Making the plastic pieces thinner, from 1mm --> 0.3mm
      -Having better fitting lids on the petri dishes to prevent evapuration
      -Try out different shapes of plastic   
  Print out different shapes of plastic

Date 23/04/25
  Looked further into camera calibration - still no succes.

 Start Exp 004
    -Different shapes of plastic in 100% ethyl acetate printed out, with Z = 0.5 mm
        1. Shape = 'Square' Width: X, Height: Y, Width Z,  Weight w
        2. Shape = 'circle' radius r,  Width Z,  Weight w
        3. Shape = 'cross', Width: X, Height: Y, Width Z,  Weight w
        4. Shape = 'ovale', Width: X, Height: Y, Width Z,  Weight w
        5. Shape = '#', Width: X, Height: Y, Width Z,  Weight w
  Width of 0.05 is too thin for the 3d printer. A larger width is necesarry, otherwise the palstic will have small howlse in its area

  The calibration code was made working. However the incorperation of the code into the area detection code has not been able to succeed.

Date 24/04/25
  -The incorperation of the camera calibration does not seem to work. Today was researched how to get it to work, however I could not find out how to incorperate this.

date 25/04/25
  -Decided to use the uncallibrated camera on different shapes. The shapes are dissolved in ethyl acetate. The dimension of the shapes are given below with their areas. However the areas found with the code and area reduction
    will not be accurate. Since the camera is not calibrated. So the results of this experiment won't be important. We shall take more of a look at how the plastic dissolves and if it can be left alone for over the weekend.

        1. Shape = 'Square' Width: 20mm, Height: 20mm, Width 0.6mm, Area: 400mm, Weight 0.31g,
        2. Shape = 'circle' Diameter 21mm,  Width 0.6mm , Area: 365,   Weight 0.22g,
        3. Shape = 'cross', Width (per staff): 5.10, Height(per staff): 30, Width 0.6, area: 106  Weight 0.35g 
        4. Shape = 'Square with Whole', Width: 20, Height: 20, Width 0.6, diameter_in: 9.74, Area:325.34, Weight 0.25g
        5. shape = 'donut, diameter_o: 21mm, diameter_i = 11.3 , area:  261, weigh 0.16g
        3. Shape = '#', Width (per staff): 5.10, Height(per staff): 30, Width 0.6, area: 508  Weight 0.47g 

    

Date 28/04/25
  Data analisis on exp 001 to 003 was completed: Data from 001 and 002 mostly seem like noise/camera mis readings. 003 had showed some increase in area size and then a decrease at the beginning. Which seems to agree with the fact that the plastic is dissolving

  Weekly meeting with Vittorio and Xiangyu
    Decided that the area calculation with the code was not reliable and good enough
      --> Will take a look in measuring the light intensity, Since then we plastic is dissolving a dark 'cloud' of plastic pieces form around the plastic, this interferce with the edge detection
          out thought is to use this as a form of measurment. To measure the pixel intensity within the ROI. Then correlate this pixel intensity back to that the plastic is dissoling and may even back to the thickness of the plastic.
          Finally it is a thought of combining both the edge detection and the light intensity measurments, to get a better understanding of how th eplastic is dissolving.

  I also decided that it is not necessarry at this moment to do multiple ROI measurment at the same time. Since the camera does not seem to handle that well, as the calibration code does not seem to work as expected. For this reason it was decided to 
  only have, maybe 2 ROI's to put the focus more on the individual pieces. Then later in the project to take a look at how it could be expended to work wilt multiple plastic pieces at the same time. A way could be to use more than one pi camera, or to make the calibration code
  fully working

  Research was done to look further into this plan and a start was made to to get the code for pixel intensity working.

Date 29/04/25
  Today was only coding. This was performed from with the program called pi-connect

  Firstly co-pilot student was installed on the computer. This helps with asking AI for help within the IDE. Then another look was taken at the camera calibration incorperation. However it still could not be fixed. (A check was performed to see if some of the files it tried to acces were empty and
  that could be why it didn't function. This was not the case)

  The rest of the day pixel_better was tried to be coded. This took far longer than was anticipated. The reason for this was a glitch with the interaction of the ROI and canny edge system, since the edges of the ROI were also seen as edges in the canny edge algorithm. The reason for this was
  that the maximum area was put too high, lowering this seemed to fix the issue. However this is not a full fix, but more of a bandage. Since I only made it so, that the code does not take edges of too large objects in fame.

  Further more a new heatmap was added to see the visualisation of the the pixel intensities.

  another csv file was made for the readings of the pixel intensities withing the ROI: Avg pixel intensity, max PI, Min Pi

  A new setup was thought of to make most of this function: using an beaker, a round piece of plastic will be hold in place. This be done with a rope or sticks, keeping the place of plastic in place within the beaker. Then using a stirbar to keep the mixture mixed, to have the colour of the mixture 
  as even as possible.

  Exp005:
    Exp 004 was continued with the new code. Only the circle ROI is being looked at this time. This is done, because it was deemed to be the most accurate shape to observe. 


Date 30/04/25
 Exp 004 was analyzed
    - cross:       w=0.41g,  d= 0,1g
    - donut:       w=0.22g,  d= 0.06g
    - #:           w=0.36g,  d=0.11g
    - square_hole: w=0.29g,  d=0.04g
    - square:      w=0.36g,  d=0.05
    - circle:      w=0.26,   d=0.04

  The result seem to indicate that the plastics have increases in weight, while the readings seem to indicate that the plastics are degrading and dissolving. More tests will be done to see if these readings are accurate. However, i expect
  that the weight were initially misread.

  Exp 005 was stopped:
    result do not seem to have a change in pixel intensity. Tests are going to performed today to see if the pixel intensity function performs as it would be expected. This will be done by changing the light level and adding dark objectrs within the ROI
    and looking if the pixel intensity lowers as it would be expected.

  Exp004 data analysis was done

date 01/04/25
  The powerpoint was made for thesis proposal and text.



date 02/04/25
  A new setup was thought of. making a plastic circle with a whole in the smaller circular middle. Plasing a glass pipette in the whole, that keeps the plastic in place. Then placing this plastic with pipette in a glass beaker filled with ethyl acetate with a stirring rod, that keeps the solution stirred.

  exp006 was started:
    The new setup: this looks at area size and pixel intensity at the same time. This was left in over the weekend.

date 05/05/25
  Exp006 was ended:
    The new setup does not seem to work: plastic curls up even more. This can be improve maybe some of the following point
        - If the printer is used, put the plastic in a oven, so that it melts the printed line structure; This line structure causes internal stresses that keep make the plastic piece curlp up or use a solid piece of plastic, that is cut by the laser cutter.
        - Don't use the area calculation anymore, only look at the pixel intensity

  Rest of the day was spend discussing and thinking about how to improve this test and maybe still be able to use the area calculation somehow.


date 06/05/25
  exp007 started:
      The second point was used. Small pieces of plastic were placed in a petri dish, then this was covered with ethyll acetate and a stirring rod was plased in. Now we only take a look at the pixel intensity, since if the plastic dissolved in the solution, the pixel intensity will change, since the plastic is colored. This 
      experimetn will be left in for 2 days. In the meanwhile I will do more research for other possible methods of copmuter vision.

date 07/05/25
    Exp 007 was continued
  ``More research was done in what the opencv packet contains and how to code it possibly better. For the website of openCV was looked at and some youtube videos explaining the coding functions were looked at


date 08/05/25
    Exp 007 was ended:
      gotten no results from the experiment. This was due to the probably the stirring bar. Since the stirring made the plastic pieces diluted in the solvend, which caused the solution to not change color. Resulting in the camera not seeing a different 
      pixel intensity. However we have concluded that it did dilute, since under the lightmictroscope the liquid was filled with microplastics.

    Further I reconned that it might be possible to conclude that a piece of plastic is dissolving by looking at the amount of pure black pixels (or any color of the plastic). This could be done by looking at the contours of the normal image or
    turning the image into black and white and setting the contrast very high with a treshold that only shows the real black pixels. The code was written for this: in the code only looks at a certain picture and transforms that picture into black and white
    then it counts the pixels. It does this for both the contour of normal image, canny image and black and white image. The code could easilty be transformd into a pi-camera video functino

    This coude still suffers from the same problem as the the area function. As the plastic can still curl up and deform, changing the amound of black pixels the computer sees. To help this, the palstic needs to be hold in place. With either glueing it 
    to the petri dish or making the plastic solid, so that it does not deform.

date 09/05/25
    Exp 008 was started:
      Same as exp 007, however instead of plastic beads, cut directly of the filament. This time I use a cut up plastic shapes from the previous experiments that were not used. These are arount 0.5-1mm thick. This might help dissolving them better 
      in the ethyl acetate, so that the pixel intensity can be measured, or so I hope. To be sure, I will run 2 petri disches in the experiment. One with a stirrer and one without. Since I am sure that in the petridish without a stirrer a plastic cloud will
      form.

    The code from yesterday was further improved and put in the github file.




date 12/04/25
    Had a conversation with Vittorio about the project. 
        The projects I am working on now has been changed. Now I will use my code to continue another reasearch. This is about measuring the dissolving time of a plastic structure. The plastics here is colored and will leave a color in the solvent. Then this color change will be measured in pixel intensity. This is done by using the same code
        as was used before, only with the area detection removed and only looking pixel intensity.

        the plastic being used in this experiment is called PVB. Our plastic has a yellow color. This plastic will be dissolved in isopropanol.
        Before starting the experiment, a calibration curve needed to be made, so that we can know what the limitations are of the picamera


    Today plastic was left to dissolve in isopropanol. This was done using a rotator. The amounts left to dissolve were:

          - 0.1g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.2g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.4g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.6g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.8g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 1g PVB in 20mL ispropanol

date 13/04/25
    Coming back it was noticed that all the PVB was luckily dissolved overnight. Seeing this I decided to dissolve more. These amounts were:
          - 1.2g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 1.4g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 1.6g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 1.8g PVB in 20mL ispropanol

    With the dissolved plastics from the day before a calibration test was done. This was done by putting the liquids, in their plastic container next to eachoter, with a light pad behind them and measuring the pixel intensity.

    The plastic pieces needed for the experiment were printed out.

Date 14/04/25
    After discussing with a collegue in the lab. It was decided that the calibraion curve experiment done yesterday was not good enough. Firstly the solutions were kept in their plastic holders. These plastic braek the light differently than glass. Which would be
    used in the main experiment. So the results were not accurate. Also the plastic containers had blue caps, which reflected into the liquid, due the the effect of the lightpad behind the plastic container altering the results. Now in the exp009, 
    glass vials were used and the experiments was done one measurment at a time, to keep all the measurments as constant as possible. The following conentrations were used:


          - 0.05g PVB in 20mL ispropanol     
          - 0.1g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.2g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.3g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.4g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.5g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.6g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.8g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 0.9g PVB in 20mL ispropanol
          - 1g PVB in 20mL ispropanol

    After this the calibration curve was made. This can be seen under the file of calibration_curve in the github file. Doing this it was discovered that the concentration beweteen 0.05-0.4 g/20ml were the best. So a concentration of:

          0.0025-0.02 g/ml

    Is best to use for this experiment.


Date 15/04/25

    After a discussion with a colleague, I decided to change my conclusion for the calibration curve. I decided to use 0.03g point until the 0,02 gram point. This seemed to give an R of 1 and seemed to be much more accurate than the other once. Thus the concentrations of
    measurment will be between

        0.0025-0.01 g/ml
        

    Started Exp 010:
        Fast Dissolving plastic piece of 1.06 grams was put in a container with 100ml of isopropanol. The roi was put above the the stir bar. The roi was one long rectangle.

    It was testet to see if the container would no melt with the isopromapol: This seemed to be the case.


Date 16/04/25
    The experiment was not finished yet. So it was decided to keep it running over the weekend.
    

Date 19/04/25
    In the meeting with Vittorio and Xiangyu that it was necessary to change my setup up once again. This time I was to use a cuvet that xiangyu thought up. This is triangular cuvet with differing length path. This would enaple the pi camera to be 
    saturated less quickly and could see a wider range.

    The rest of the day Xiangyu explained the theory behind the new cuvet and explained how to analyse the DNG(RAW) pictures. However I was thinking of another way to do this. Instead of manually doing the analysis, I would set up the ROI 

Date 20/04/25
    Day was spend working on the code, that let's me take a collumn of 1 pixel with a certain height. Then it calculates the pixel intensity of each red, green and yellow colored collumn in the row. However this was failed, since I did not manage to succeed the whole day.

Date 21/04/25
    A 3d printed black box was made, where the triangular cuvet could be hold in place and the camera could be directly placed on top.

    The code I was working on yesterday was continued. However I changed the idea behind it. Instead of creating a collumn of one pixel thick. I would make multiple ROI's withing the see trough area. Than assign a thickness to those ROI's and take the average color
    intensity of the RGB values. This in theory is less acurate, however it seems to be much easier to code in. However after spending multiple hours, I could not get the code to work with RAW camera format. So I need more time to look into this or to do the measurments,
    in normal video format and not raw. Which would then again be less acurate.

Date 22/04/25
    The printed box had failed. Started the print once again. 

    Today Tried again to get the average intensity of RGB colours inside a row. However, after discussing this with xiangyu, I was told that this was inpossible to do for a raw image file. Thus after trying to code this, I decided to abandon the idea and instead 
    Use the method of first taking the picture in DNG format and then having the code look at that picture.


Date 23/04/25
    3D printed box height was too small (7cm), decided to redisign to box to be 12cm high in the hopes that this would be enough. 

    The rest of the day I wrote 2 small codes. One that takes a DNG RAW image when pressing the key 's' and one that allows me to look at the DNG image. This codes will be used as a starter format for the automatisation and the images taking from this code
    will be used for making the calibration curve.

    Did the data analysis of EXP10. Where the the fast dissolving plastic structure of PVB was dissolved in aceton.

Date 26/04/25
    A code was tried to be written so that the DNG image was cropped automatically where the Flow Cell was. However this failed, since the code was too difficult to wright for me in a short time. So it was decided to make the calibration curve as xiangyu did.\
    This was by manually cropping the image and doing the analysis. For croppen the image, imageJ program will be used.


    The Calibration Curve for the Flow Cell of xiangyu was made. This was done with the same solutions for the previous calibration curve. Namely 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7 and 0.9g in 20ml. After each reading the flowcell was cleaned thorougly.

    The DNG images taken for the calibration and were cropped using ImageJ, then analysed using Xiangyus code.


Date 27/04/25
  Data analysis of the Calibration Curve of EXP11 was done. This was done using the code of Xiangyu.


Date 28/04/25
    Code was written to first take RAW format images and then do the data analyses of the images from the ROI crop. This is done making a CSV file for each colour. So for BLue, Green and Red. Each row of the CSV file is a time step and each collumn is a certain
    path length. The code is called RAW_Crop.py.

    UV-VIS readings were done of the PVB solutions used for the calibration curve of EXP11. With these we can determine if the Absortion and concentrations have a linear co-dependency. If this is the case we can be sure that the readings done with the picamera can be used.
    This will also show which colour will be the most accurate to look at. In our case this will be blue, Since the peak in the visible spectrum in our case is around 430. This would be around the blue spectrum





















  
  
  
  
